Chess opening
Chess openingKing's Pawn Game
abcdefgh8877665544332211abcdefgh
Moves1.e4ECOB00–B99, C00–C99Synonym(s)e4  King's Pawn Opening
The King's Pawn Game is any chess opening starting with the move:

1. e4
It is the most popular opening move in chess,[1] followed by the Queen's Pawn Game.


Details about the move and the game plan[edit]
White opens with the most popular of the twenty possible opening moves. Although effective in winning for White (54.25%), it is not quite as successful as the four next most common openings for White: 1.d4 (55.95%), 1.Nf3 (55.8%), 1.c4 (56.3%), and 1.g3 (55.8%).[2] Since nearly all openings beginning 1.e4 have names of their own, the term King's Pawn Game, unlike Queen's Pawn Game, is rarely used to describe the opening of the game.
Advancing the king's pawn two squares is highly useful because it occupies a center square, attacks the center square d5, and allows the development of White's king's bishop and queen. Chess grandmaster Bobby Fischer said that the King's Pawn Game is "Best by test",[3] and proclaimed that "With 1.e4! I win."[4][page needed]

Opening categorization and continuations[edit]
King's Pawn Games are further classified by whether Black responds with 1...e5 or not. Openings beginning with 1.e4 e5 are called Double King's Pawn Games, Double King's Pawn Openings, Symmetrical King's Pawn Games, or Open Games – these terms are equivalent. Openings where Black responds to 1.e4 with a move other than 1...e5 are called Asymmetrical King's Pawn Games or Semi-Open Games.
The Encyclopedia of Chess Openings (ECO) classifies all King's Pawn Games into volumes B or C: volume C if the game starts with 1.e4 e6 (the French Defence) or 1.e4 e5; volume B if Black answers 1.e4 with any other move. The rare instances where the opening does not fall into a more specific category than King's Pawn Game are included in codes B00 (includes the Nimzowitsch Defence and unusual moves after 1.e4), C20 (includes Alapin's Opening and unusual moves after 1.e4 e5), C40 (includes the Latvian Gambit and unusual moves after 1.e4 e5 2.Nf3), and C50 (includes the Hungarian Defence, the Giuoco Pianissimo, and unusual moves after 1.e4 e5 2.Nf3 Nc6 3.Bc4).
The Black responses which are given one or more chapters in the ECO are given below, ranked in order of popularity according to ChessBase.

Popular continuations[edit]
1...c5, the Sicilian Defence, is the most common continuation in modern practice. The Sicilian Defence allows Black to fight for the center by preparing to meet a d2–d4 advance with ...cxd4. The Sicilian is among the sharpest and most analysed openings in chess, and it has eighty chapters, B20–B99, set aside for it in ECO.
1...e5 leads to the classical Open Games, which includes openings such as the Ruy Lopez, King's Gambit, Italian Game, Scotch Game and Petrov's Defence. Also in this opening, Black is generally ready to meet a d2–d4 advance with exd4, though some variations offer him the chance to holding the centre with ....d6. These openings are covered in chapters C20–C99 in ECO.
1...e6 is the French Defence, covered in chapters C00–C19 in ECO. Black's restrained response allows White to play 2.d4. This gives White a spatial advantage, with two pawns in the center to Black's one (after the usual 2... d5) and open lines for both of the bishops, while Black blocks in the light squared bishop and stops it from developing. One or the other player will usually resolve the central tension, either by Black playing ...dxe4 or White advancing with e5. In the latter case, Black typically works to undermine White's pawn center with ...c5 and/or ...f6.
1...c6 is the Caro–Kann Defence, covered in chapters B10–B19 in ECO. Like the French, this is also considered to be a solid reply, but Black will often need to surrender control over the center (e.g., after 2.d4 d5 3.Nc3 Black usually plays 3...dxe4). On the other hand, the light-squared bishop will usually not wind up trapped behind its own pawns, as is common in the French.
1...d6 is usually played with the intention of playing the Pirc Defence (1.e4 d6 2.d4 Nf6 3.Nc3 g6, ECO codes B07–B09), a hypermodern defence in which Black allows White to construct a dominant center, with the intention of subverting it later. It can also lead to the Modern Defence, Pribyl System or Philidor Defence.
1...g6 is the Modern Defence. This is related to the Pirc Defence, to which it can transpose. These openings allow White to build up a pawn center with 2.d4, but Black will develop the king's bishop to g7 and strike back at the center. These openings are covered in chapters B06–B09 in ECO, with the Modern Defence covered in chapter B06.
1...d5, the Scandinavian Defence or Center Counter Defence, is a direct strike at the pawn at e4, forcing the situation in the center. After 2.exd5 Qxd5 3.Nc3, however, White gains time by attacking Black's prematurely developed queen. Alternatively, Black can play 2...Nf6 (the Marshall Gambit), when White chooses between 3.d4 Nxd5 4.c4 with a spatial advantage, or 3.c4, when Black usually offers a gambit with either 3...c6 or 3...e6. The Scandinavian is covered in chapter B01 in ECO.
1...Nf6 is Alekhine's Defence, which invites White to attack the knight with 2.e5. Black is often forced to spend time moving the knight several times as it is chased around the board, all the while allowing White to build up a broad pawn center. Black counts on the pawns becoming overextended so that he can later undermine them. The Alekhine is covered in chapters B02–B05 of ECO.
Uncommon continuations[edit]
Apart from these eight responses, all other replies from Black are covered together in ECO chapter B00. A few of these are not entirely obscure, and have received extensive analysis.

1...Nc6 is the Nimzowitsch Defence. After 2.d4, there are two distinctive main lines: 2...e5, favoured by British grandmaster Tony Miles, and 2...d5, introduced and often played by the influential Latvian-Danish player and writer Aron Nimzowitsch (1886–1935).
1...b6 is Owen's Defence, preparing to develop Black's bishop to b7 to put pressure on White's center.
1...a6 is the St. George Defence. Black prepares to advance on the queenside with 2...b5, but allows White to occupy the center with 2.d4. The opening gained some attention after Miles used it to defeat Anatoly Karpov in 1980.[5]
1...g5 is the Borg Defence ("Grob" backwards) or Basman Defence, often played by IM Michael Basman. The move weakens the kingside severely, but according to Modern Chess Openings (MCO), Black is only somewhat worse.[6]
Rare continuations[edit]
The remaining replies to 1.e4 are very rare, and have not received significant and serious attention by masters. MCO does not cover them, considering them so bad as not to merit discussion.[7] These openings sometimes lead to wild and exciting games, and are occasionally employed by weaker players to get better trained opponents "out-of-book". Some have exotic names. Such openings are listed below along with instances where they have been used by strong players.

1...h6, called the Carr Defence in Unorthodox Chess Openings. This defence has also been used by Michael Basman, and is likely to transpose to the Borg Defence after 2.d4 g5.
1...a5, the Corn Stalk Defence. United States chess player Preston Ware played the Corn Stalk in eleven recorded tournament games from 1880 to 1882, winning four and losing seven. Its chief fault is the very early and therefore potentially unnecessary development of a peripheral piece.
1...Na6, called the Lemming Defence in Unorthodox Chess Openings, develops the knight to an inferior square.
1...h5, the Goldsmith Defence or Pickering Defence. All this move achieves is to waste a tempo and weaken the kingside. It is the reversed version of the Kadas Opening.[8]
1...f6 is known as the Barnes Defence after Thomas Wilson Barnes. This move is clearly inferior, taking away the f6-square from the knight and weakening Black's kingside, although Barnes managed to defeat Paul Morphy with this defence in 1858.[9][10]
1...f5 is called the Duras Gambit in Unorthodox Chess Openings. This is a pawn sacrifice which gives Black a lead in development after 2.exf5 Nf6, but without much additional compensation for the sacrificed pawn. Another move in this position is 2...Kf7, dubbed the "Fred", which is considered a joke opening. After 3.Qh5+, Black has to play g6 and ruin their kingside position. The line was played three times in an exhibition match between Ossip Bernstein and Oldřich Duras.
1...Nh6, the Adams Defence or Wild Bull Defence. It can transpose to the old hippo system.[8]
See also[edit]
List of chess openings
Open Game
Semi-Open Game
References[edit]

Bibliography[edit]





vteChessOutline
Chess theory
Chess titles
Grandmaster
Computer chess
glossary
matches
engines
software
Correspondence chess
FIDE
Glossary
Online chess
Premove
Internet chess server
list
Rating system
world rankings
norms
Variants
List
World records
Equipment
Chess set
chessboard
Dubrovnik chess set
Staunton chess set
Chess pieces
King
Queen
Rook
Bishop
Knight
Pawn
Fairy
Chess clock
Chess table
Score sheets
History
Timeline
Versus de scachis
Göttingen manuscript
Charlemagne chessmen
Lewis chessmen
Romantic chess
Hypermodernism
Soviet chess school
Top player comparison
Geography of chess
Africa
South Africa
China
Europe
Armenia
Spain
India
Notable games
List of chess players
amateurs
female
grandmasters
Women in chess
Chess museums
Bobby Fischer Center
Gökyay Association Chess Museum
World Chess Hall of Fame
Rules
Castling
Cheating in chess
Check
Checkmate
Draw
by agreement
Fifty-move rule
Perpetual check
Stalemate
Threefold repetition
En passant
Pawn promotion
Time control
Fast chess
Touch-move rule
White and Black
Terms
Blunder
Chess notation
algebraic
descriptive
PGN
annotation symbols
symbols in Unicode
Fianchetto
Gambit
Key square
King walk
Open file
Half-open file
Outpost
Pawns
backward
connected
doubled
isolated
passed
Swindle
Tempo
Transposition
Trap
Tactics
Artificial castling
Battery
Alekhine's gun
Block
Checkmate patterns
Combination
Decoy
Deflection
Desperado
Discovered attack
Double check
Fork
Interference
Overloading
Pawn storm
Pin
Sacrifice
Queen sacrifice
Skewer
Undermining
Windmill
X-ray
Zwischenzug
Strategy
Compensation
Exchange
the exchange
Initiative
first-move advantage
Middlegame
Pawn structure
Hedgehog
Isolated Queen's Pawn
Maróczy Bind
Minority attack
Piece values
Prophylaxis
School of chess
OpeningsFlank opening
Benko Opening
Bird's Opening
Dunst Opening
English Opening
Grob's Attack
Larsen's Opening
Zukertort Opening
King's Indian Attack
Réti Opening
King's Pawn Game
Alekhine's Defence
Caro–Kann Defence
French Defence
Modern Defence
Nimzowitsch Defence
Open Game
Four Knights Game
Giuoco Piano
Italian Game
King's Gambit
Petrov's Defence
Philidor Defence
Ponziani Opening
Ruy Lopez
Semi-Italian Opening
Scotch Game
Two Knights Defense
Vienna Game
Owen's Defence
Pirc Defence
Austrian Attack
Scandinavian Defense
Sicilian Defence
Alapin
Dragon/Accelerated Dragon
Najdorf
Scheveningen
Queen's Pawn Game
Budapest Gambit
Colle System
Dutch Defence
English Defence
Indian Defence
Benoni Defence
Modern Benoni
Bogo-Indian Defence
Catalan Opening
Grünfeld Defence
King's Indian Defence
Nimzo-Indian Defence
Old Indian Defense
Queen's Indian Defence
London System
Richter–Veresov Attack
Queen's Gambit
Accepted
Declined
Slav Defence
Semi-Slav Defence
Chigorin Defense
Torre Attack
Trompowsky Attack
Other
List of openings
theory table
List of chess gambits
Irregular
Bongcloud Attack
Fool's mate
Scholar's mate
Endgames
Bishop and knight checkmate
King and pawn vs king
Opposite-coloured bishops
Pawnless endgame
Queen and pawn vs queen
Queen vs pawn
Rook and bishop vs rook
Rook and pawn vs rook
Lucena position
Philidor position
Strategy
fortress
opposition
Tarrasch rule
triangulation
Zugzwang
Study
Tablebase
Two knights endgame
Wrong bishop
Wrong rook pawn
Tournaments
List of strong chess tournaments
Chess Olympiad
Women
World Chess Championship
List
Candidates Tournament
Chess World Cup
FIDE Grand Prix
Other world championships
Women
Team
Rapid
Blitz
Junior
Youth
Senior
Amateur
Chess composition
Solving
Computer chess championships
CCC
CSVN
North American
TCEC
WCCC
WCSCC
Art and media
Caïssa
Chess aesthetics
Chess in the arts
early literature
film
novels
paintings
poetry
short stories
Chess books
opening books
endgame literature
Oxford Companion
Chess libraries
Chess newspaper columns
Chess periodicals
Related
Arbiter
Chess boxing
Chess club
Chess composer
Chess engine
AlphaZero
Deep Blue
Leela Chess Zero
Stockfish
Chess problem
glossary
joke chess
Chess prodigy
Simultaneous exhibition
Solving chess

 Chess portal
Category





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=King%27s_Pawn_Game&oldid=1184587716"